README.md, before:

# Mastodont

Mastodont is a CLI tool to import blocklists into Mastodon written in Node.js.

It uses the `/admin/domain_blocks` [endpoint](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/methods/admin/domain_blocks/#create) newly
available in Mastodon v4 and therefore requires instances run on v4+.

![mastodont](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2541728/203543918-469deec7-6c54-4dd2-b13b-06e5ab5350ce.png)

## Installation

Go to `https://${YOUR_INSTANCE_URL}/settings/applications/new` and create a new application called `Mastodont` with the
permissions:

- `admin:read:domain_allows`
- `admin:write:domain_allows`

Save the application, click on it, and copy the value of `Your access token` to the clipboard.

Open a terminal and run:

```bash
npm install -g mastodont
```

## Usage

```bash
mastodont
```

Mastodont operates interactively and requires only a Mastodon instance URL, an access token with the necessary
permissions, and a text file containing a list of domains to block. A sample blocklist is provided in the root of this
repository.

Mastodont will prompt you for your instance URL, access token, and path to the blocklist file. It will optionally save
the former two options, along with your preferences for domain blocks, to a `.mastodont.yml` file in your home folder so
that you don't need to enter them repeatedly.

If you want to skip the prompts, you can pass the values as arguments using the following flags:

### Mastodont config

- `--help`: Show help
- `-c $PATH, --config $PATH`: Optional custom config file path
- `--non-interactive`: Disable interactive mode
- `--save`: Save config to default location
- `--reset`: Delete config (cannot be used with other options)

### Instance config

- `-e $URL, --endpoint $URL`: Mastodon server URL
- `-t $TOKEN, --access-token $TOKEN`: Mastodon Access Token
- `-b $PATH, --blocklist $PATH`: Blocklist file path

### Block config

- `-s $LEVEL, --severity $LEVEL`: Block severity level (`silence`, `suspend`, `noop`)
- `--obfuscate`: Obfuscate domains in public listing
- `--reject-media`: Reject media from domains (works with `limit`, `noop`)
- `--reject-reports`: Reject reports from domains (works with `limit`,`noop`)
- `--private-comment $COMMENT`: Private comment
- `--public-comment $COMMENT`: Public comment

## License

MIT

## Author

[@selfagency](https://kibitz.cloud/@selfagency)

Commit message:

Add URL support, sample workflow
Signed-off-by: Daniel Sieradski <daniel@self.agency>

README.md, after:

# Mastodont

Mastodont is a CLI tool to import blocklists into Mastodon written in Node.js.

It uses the `/admin/domain_blocks` [endpoint](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/methods/admin/domain_blocks/#create) newly
available in Mastodon v4 and therefore requires instances run on v4+.

![mastodont](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2541728/203543918-469deec7-6c54-4dd2-b13b-06e5ab5350ce.png)

## Installation

Go to `https://${YOUR_INSTANCE_URL}/settings/applications/new` and create a new application called `Mastodont` with the
permissions:

- `admin:read:domain_allows`
- `admin:write:domain_allows`

Save the application, click on it, and copy the value of `Your access token` to the clipboard.

Open a terminal and run:

```bash
npm install -g mastodont
```

## Usage

```bash
mastodont
```

Mastodont operates interactively and requires only a Mastodon instance URL, an access token with the necessary
permissions, and a text file containing a list of domains to block, one per line. A sample blocklist is provided in the
`examples` folder at the root of this repository.

Mastodont will prompt you for your instance URL, access token, and path to the blocklist file. It will optionally save
the former two options, along with your preferences for domain blocks, to a `.mastodont.yml` file in your home folder so
that you don't need to enter them repeatedly.

If you want to skip the prompts, you can pass the values as arguments using the following flags:

### Mastodont config

- `--help`: Show help
- `-c $PATH, --config $PATH`: Optional custom config file path
- `--non-interactive`: Disable interactive mode
- `--save`: Save config to default location
- `--reset`: Delete config (cannot be used with other options)

### Instance config

- `-e $URL, --endpoint $URL`: Mastodon server URL
- `-t $TOKEN, --access-token $TOKEN`: Mastodon Access Token
- `-b $LOCATION, --blocklist $LOCATION`: Blocklist file path

### Block config

- `-s $LEVEL, --severity $LEVEL`: Block severity level (`silence`, `suspend`, `noop`)
- `--obfuscate`: Obfuscate domains in public listing
- `--reject-media`: Reject media from domains (works with `limit`, `noop`)
- `--reject-reports`: Reject reports from domains (works with `limit`,`noop`)
- `--private-comment $COMMENT`: Private comment
- `--public-comment $COMMENT`: Public comment

### Automation

Mastodont can be used to automatically update your blocklist on a regular basis. To do so, you can use a cron job or a
CI workflow. Examples of a cron job and a CI workflow are provided in the `examples` folder at the root of this
repository.

## License

MIT

## Author

[@selfagency](https://kibitz.cloud/@selfagency)
